Refresh the network-ubiquiti-unifi-snmp documentation (#2931)
centreon/centreon-documentation: pp/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/network-ubiquiti-unifi-snmp.md

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Pack assets

### Templates

The Monitoring Connector **Ubiquiti UniFi SNMP** brings a host template:

* **Net-Ubiquiti-Unifi-SNMP-custom**

The connector brings the following service templates (sorted by the host template they are attached to):

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Net-Ubiquiti-Unifi-SNMP-custom" label="Net-Ubiquiti-Unifi-SNMP-custom">

| Service Alias         | Service Template                                    | Service Description                                                                                                                                           |
|:----------------------|:----------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Cpu                   | Net-Ubiquiti-Unifi-Cpu-SNMP-custom                  | Check the detailed rate of utilization of CPU for the equipment. This check can give the average CPU utilization rate and the rate per CPU for multi-core CPU |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Cpu                   | Net-Ubiquiti-Unifi-Cpu-SNMP-custom                  | Check the detailed rate of utilization of CPU for the device. This check can give the average CPU utilization rate and the rate per CPU for multi-core CPU |
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Swap" label="Swap">

| Metric name           | Unit  |
|:----------------------|:------|
| swap.usage.bytes      | B     |
| swap.free.bytes       | B     |
| swap.usage.percentage | %     |

> To obtain this new metric format, include **--use-new-perfdata** in the **EXTRAOPTIONS** service macro.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Uptime" label="Uptime">

| Metric name           | Unit  |
|:----------------------|:------|
| system.uptime.seconds | s     |

> To obtain this new metric format, include **--use-new-perfdata** in the **EXTRAOPTIONS** service macro.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Virtual-Access-Points" label="Virtual-Access-Points">

| Metric name                                           | Unit  |
|:------------------------------------------------------|:------|
| virtual_access_points.total.count                     | count |
| virtual_access_points.clients.connected.count         | count |
| *vaps*#status                                         | N/A   |
| *vaps*#virtual_access_point.clients.connected.count   | count |
| *vaps*#virtual_access_point.traffic.in.bitspersecond  | b/s   |

> | *vaps*#virtual_access_point.traffic.out.bitspersecond | b/s   |

Reviewer: See FR comment

> To monitor your Ubiquiti UniFi, the SNMP must be configured.

Reviewer: same comment as FR

> The Poller should be able to perform SNMP requests toward the Ubiquiti device over SNMP UDP/161 port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The poller should be able to perform SNMP requests toward the Ubiquiti device over the SNMP UDP/161 port.
```

|:-------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------------------------------------|:-----------:|
| OIDFILTER          | Define the OID to be used to filter interfaces (default: ifName) (values: ifDesc, ifAlias, ifName, IpAddr)                                                                                                          | ifname                                                |             |
| OIDDISPLAY         | Define the OID that will be used to name the interfaces (default: ifName) (values: ifDesc, ifAlias, ifName, IpAddr)                                                                                                 | ifname                                                |             |

> | INTERFACENAME      | Set the interface (number expected) example: 1,2,... (empty means 'check all interfaces')                                                                                                                           |                                                       |             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| INTERFACENAME      | Define which interfaces to monitor (number expected). Example: 1,2... (empty means 'check all interfaces')                                                                                                                           |                                                       |             |
```

| --debug                                    | Display debug messages.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

> | --filter-perfdata                          | Filter perfdata that match the regexp. Example: adding --filter-perfdata='avg' will remove all metrics that do not contain 'avg' from performance data.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| --filter-perfdata                          | Keep only perfdata that match the regexp. Example: adding --filter-perfdata='avg' will remove all metrics that do not contain 'avg' from performance data.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |
```

| --float-precision                          | Define the float precision for thresholds (default: 8).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  |

> | --source-encoding                          | Define the character encoding of the response sent by the monitored resource Default: 'UTF-8'.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| --source-encoding                          | Define the character encoding of the response sent by the monitored resource. Default: 'UTF-8'.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
```

| --maxrepetitions                           | Max repetitions value (default: 50) (only for SNMP v2 and v3).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |

> | --subsetleef                               | How many OID values per SNMP request (default: 50) (for get\_leef method. Be cautious when you set it. Prefer to let the default value).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| --subsetleef                               | How many OID values per SNMP request (default: 50) (for get\_leef method. Be cautious when you change this. It is recommended to leave the default value).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
```

| --display-transform-src --display-transform-dst | Modify the disk name displayed by using a regular expression.  Example: adding --display-transform-src='dev' --display-transform-dst='run' will replace all occurrences of 'dev' with 'run'                                                   |
| --show-cache                                    | Display cache disk path datas.                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| --space-reservation                             | Some filesystem has space reserved (like ext4 for root). The value is in percent of total (default: none) (results like 'df' command).                                                                                                        |
| --force-use-mib-percent                         | Can be used if you have counters overload by big disks.                                                                                                                                                                                       |

> | --force-counters32                              | Force to use 32 bits counters. Should be used when 64 bits high/low components are not available.                                                                                                                                             |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| --force-counters32                              | Force to use 32-bit counters. Should be used when 64-bit high/low components are not available.                                                                                                                                              |
```

| --units-errors                                  | Units of thresholds for errors/discards (default: 'percent\_delta') ('percent\_delta', 'percent', 'delta', 'deltaps', 'counter').                                                                                                                                                          |
| --units-cast                                    | Units of thresholds for communication types (default: 'percent\_delta') ('percent\_delta', 'percent', 'delta', 'deltaps', 'counter').                                                                                                                                                      |
| --nagvis-perfdata                               | Display traffic perfdata to be compatible with nagvis widget.                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |

> | --interface                                     | Set the interface (number expected) example: 1,2,... (empty means 'check all interfaces').                                                                                                                                                                                                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| --interface                                     | Define which interfaces to monitor (number expected). Example: 1,2... (empty means 'check all interfaces').                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
```

> | --name                                          | Allows you to define the interface (in option --interface) byname instead of OID index. The name matching mode supports regular expressions.                                                                                                                                               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| --name                                          | Allows you to define the interface (in option --interface) by name instead of OID index. The name matching mode supports regular expressions.                                                                                                                                               |
```

| --speed-in                                      | Set interface speed for incoming traffic (in Mb).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| --speed-out                                     | Set interface speed for outgoing traffic (in Mb).                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| --map-speed-dsl                                 | Get interface speed configuration for interface type 'adsl' and 'vdsl2'.  Syntax: --map-speed-dsl=interface-src-name,interface-dsl-name  E.g: --map-speed-dsl=Et0.835,Et0-vdsl2                                                                                                            |

> | --force-counters64                              | Force to use 64 bits counters only. Can be used to improve performance.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| --force-counters64                              | Force to use 64-bit counters only. Can be used to improve performance.                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
```

> | --force-counters32                              | Force to use 32 bits counters (even in snmp v2c and v3). Should be used when 64 bits counters are buggy.                                                                                                                                                                                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| --force-counters32                              | Force to use 32-bit counters. Should be used when 64-bit high/low components are not available.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Load" label="Load">

| Option     | Description                             |
|:-----------|:----------------------------------------|
| --warning  | Warning threshold (1min,5min,15min).    |
| --critical | Critical threshold (1min,5min,15min).   |
| --average  | Load average for the number of CPUs.    |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Memory" label="Memory">

| Option                   | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
|:-------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | --units                  | Units of thresholds (default: '%') ('%', 'absolute')(deprecated. Please use new counters directly)                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

Reviewer: ?

> | --free                   | Thresholds are on free space left (deprecated. Please use newcounters directly)                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |

Reviewer: ?

| --statefile-cipher     | Define the cipher algorithm to encrypt the cache (default: 'AES').                                                                                                                                                                            |
| --warning-uptime       | Warning threshold.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| --critical-uptime      | Critical threshold.                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| --add-sysdesc          | Display system description.                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |

> | --force-oid            | Can choose your oid (numeric format only).                                                                                                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: ?

> | --check-overload       | Uptime counter limit is 4294967296 and overflow. With that option, we manage the counter going back. But there is a few chance we can miss a reboot.                                                                                          |

Reviewer: ?

| --reboot-window        | To be used with check-overload option. Time in milliseconds (default: 5000) You increase the chance of not missing a reboot if you decrease that value.                                                                                       |

> | --unit                 | Select the time unit for thresholds. May be 's' for seconds, 'm'for minutes, 'h' for hours, 'd' for days, 'w' for weeks. Default is seconds.                                                                                                  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| --unit                 | Select the time unit for thresholds. May be 's' for seconds, 'm' for minutes, 'h' for hours, 'd' for days, 'w' for weeks. Default is seconds.                                                                                                  |
```
